By the way,
if you feel like you're falling behind or
there's something wrong
with your project and
you want to check out my code on the Git
repo, there's this branch called f e.
m.
We're now on the fifth step and
we are going to be adding a tool called
learner to our mono repo project.
The learner solves a bunch of problems and
we're gonna feel the benefits.
Having solved one big problem
almost immediately, and
that is it provides us with
a mechanism to run a command on
each package in our mono
repo with a one c li right.
So if we wanted to just
say Run all the tests.
learner makes that really easy.
Now it does many other things.
It's kind of like a Swiss Army knife for
JavaScript and TypeScript mana repos.
But that's that is the first
benefit we're gonna feel.
So learner is a workspace
level dependency.
We don't have a different version of
learner we could not have a different
version of learner for each package.
So we're going to install
it at the workspace level.
Yarn add dw learner
All right, and
I'm going to look in my course files and
there should be a config learner dot JSON.
So copy this file into
the root of your workspace.
I wanna talk a little bit about
what we see in this config file.
This first property here, let me copy
it in before I forget to do that.
The first property packages.
It is kind of equivalent to
workspaces In our package JSON.
Remember this this is where we started,
right?
See it's also packages slash star.
So we have to tell learner about
where it can find our packages.
You may be wondering, why do we need
to specify this if we're already
specifying it in our package, JSON.
Well, a couple answers here, number one,
Lerner works with NPM,
in addition to yarn.
In fact, this is the second line here
we're saying we wish to use yarn, but
it could be used with NPM.
So NPM doesn't have this concept
of workspaces, and that's there
needs to be some way To clue learner
in about where it can find our stuff.
Second thing, learner deals with
things like publishing packages.
So there may be things that
are present in your workspace
that you do not wish to learn to manage.
In many cases,
these will be the same set of folders.
But it's convenient to be able to make
adjustments if you ever need to be
able to be ever have a need to.
All right, this third field here version.
So right now, we're using a versioning
strategy called lockstep.
What that means is,
if we were to publish everything
in this repo, we would get at slack/types.
I put this lerna.json in the wrong place,
by the way, I'm gonna move it.
Was not in my workspace route and
it should have been.
There it is workspace route.
So we would get slack utils
one slack types one and
every time we make a change this version
number will bump for everything.
An example of a project that
uses this in practice is Babel.
So if we go and
look at our root level package JSON here,
actually the yarn lock would be better
So we've got a lot of different,
like they're not all exactly the same,
but you see a lot of a lot
of seven twelves and
then a lot of 710 fours,
right this is because as Babel
evolves All of the core plugins
are versioned in lockstep.
That does not mean I'm consuming
a unified set of like 7 12, 7 12,
7 12, 7 12 I can still, consume a mix,
but whenever a change is made,
everything is published with the new
version number all 50 or so packages so
that that's an example of a project
that uses lockstep versioning.
In practice, the other option we
have here is to say independent.
This allows the versions of the different
packages in my mono repo to
float with respect to each other.
So if I only change slack slash utils.
Only that package will cut a new release.
And only it's version number will go up.
So the version numbers across my
whole project may be different.
And this is what you would want to do if
you kind of have a collection of things.
But the way these packages within
the mono repo talk to each other.
Might be through their own public API's.
And so, someone may consume these things,
you know,
only one package from the mono repo and
they want semantic versioning and
to not have to like upgrade
a whole bunch of extra stuff.
Just because you touch one little
thing in one package, right?
You don't.
You don't need to trigger
that kind of churn.
Now, it's important to understand
the condition I just added there
the qualifier.
If everything talks to each
other through its public API,
then semantic versioning is
sufficient to describe that you know,
it is safe to take in this next version
of one package from the mono repo.
If you have a lot of private stuff,
talking to other private stuff between
your packages You probably want to use
lockstep because your version numbers
are no longer really describing.
This is a major, you know breaking change
non breaking enhancement, a patch,
right like a bug fix that doesn't
affect the public API at all.
You're not using your version numbers
to describe that stuff anymore.
You're using version numbers to
describe Maybe that same concept but
of the whole collection of things,
not the safety of moving individual
packages within the monitor repo,
forward or backward, you're more signaling
like these are all meant to work together.
These are all mentors together etc.
We're gonna start out with lockstep
versioning and later we'll change,
because this is the simplest way, for now.
We're done.
All we needed to do I know I've been
talking for a little bit but all we need
to do is install learner drop that config
file in place and let's see what happens.